.TH EASYROAM-CONFIG 8 "December 2025" "1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
easyroam-config \- extract certificates from Easyroam PKCS#12 file and configure eduroam WiFi connection

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B easyroam-config
.I easyroam_p12_file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B easyroam-config
is a shell script that automates the configuration of an
.B eduroam
WiFi profile in NetworkManager using credentials from an Easyroam-provided
PKCS#12 (.p12) client certificate file.


.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I easyroam_p12_file
Path to the Easyroam PKCS#12 file as downloaded via the Easyroam portal
(https://www.easyroam.de).  
The file must contain the client certificate, key, and CA chain for your institution’s eduroam service.

.SH OPTIONS
This script does accept this options besides the mandatory PKCS#12 file argument.
If incorrect arguments are provided, a usage message is displayed.

.TP
.B -h, --help
Display a help message and exit.

.TP
.B -w, --warn [days]
Display a warning if the certificate will expire within the specified number of days.
Default is 30 days if no value is provided.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
GNU/Linux system with
.BR bash (1)
NetworkManager and its command-line tool
.BR nmcli (1)
installed and available in PATH.
OpenSSL (version 1.x or 3.x), with optional
.B \-legacy
flag for compatibility when using OpenSSL 3.
An Easyroam-supplied PKCS#12 file containing valid eduroam credentials.

.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
The script generates a random password for protecting the extracted client private key.
The unencrypted PKCS#12 source file should be deleted after extraction to avoid leaking sensitive credentials.
The extracted files are stored in:
.I ~/.local/easyroam-certs
with no special permissions enforced; users should adjust permissions manually to prevent unauthorized access.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are set internally and are not intended for user modification:

.TP
.B _PASSWORD
Randomly generated 8-hex-digit password protecting the private key file.
.TP
.B _CONF_DIR
Directory for extracted credentials, default:
.I ~/.local/easyroam-certs
.TP
.B _CERT_PATH
Path to extracted client certificate PEM file.
.TP
.B _CHAIN_PATH
Path to extracted CA certificate chain PEM file.
.TP
.B _PRIVKEY_PATH
Path to extracted client private key, PEM format.
.TP
.B _CN
File containing the extracted identity string.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Successful completion.
.TP
1
General script failure.
.TP
2
Invalid PKCS#12 file format or password.
.TP
3
No WiFi device detected.

.SH EXAMPLES
To configure eduroam:

.EX
$ easyroam-config ~/Downloads/easyroam_credentials.p12
.EE

This will create and store certificates in \fI~/.local/easyroam-certs\fP and set up a new eduroam connection in NetworkManager.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kevin Zink <kevin.zink@mpi-hd.mpg.de> inspirated by the DFNs instructions for manual installation, adapted into a manual page by ChatGPT.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nmcli (1),
.BR nm-settings-nmcli (5),
.BR openssl (1),
.BR NetworkManager(8),
Easyroam portal: https://www.easyroam.de

.SH DISCLAIMER
This script modifies system-wide NetworkManager profiles and handles sensitive credentials.
Use with caution, and only on systems you control.
The author(s) and distributor(s) accept no liability for credential compromise or connection failures.
